Hyunckel: It's over.
[weeping]
All right, then. Go ahead.
Do whatever you will with us.
I find it hard to believe
that you've all given up.
Crocodine: It wouldn't
make a difference now.
Popp is dead, and he's taken
our only hope of
defeating you with him.
There's nothing
left for us to do.
Mystvearn: If I had
known just how central
that boy was to your
party's success,
I would've done away
with him sooner.
In hindsight,
I should've seen it.
Even Kill held
him in high regard.
Mystvearn: He said such people
have a knack for becoming
the heart and
soul of their team...
so it's wise pick them
off as early as possible.
His valiant efforts
have proven he was
worthy of such respect.
It's been many years
since an opponent
forced me to make
use of the Phoenix Wing.
Hyunckel [thought]:
The Phoenix Wing?
Why is that familiar...
Mystvearn: It's a high
velocity palm strike...
One that's able to
deflect any kind of spell.
The power of Medroa
may be unmatched,
but it's still no exception.
If it's any consolation,
I doubt I could've survived
that attack if I hadn't
used this forbidden skill.
Hyunckel: The Phoenix...
The immortal bird...
That means...
Vearn: Kaiser Phoenix.
Hyunckel [thought]: That's it!
They share the phoenix...
Somehow, Mystvearn
and Vearn must be...
Yes, they have to be!
I think I know Mystvearn's
true identity...
And if I'm right,
it makes perfect sense
why he's so powerful...
I've sensed it
all this time...
Don't insult me
with mercy here.
Hurry up and finish it.
But remember this, you fool:
no matter what
you do with us,
Dai will make
quick work of you.
You make a good point.
The all-important little Hero
still remains, doesn't he?
In that case, I shall
give you as you wish.
Know that it
won't be long before
Dai joins you in
the afterlife.
No way.
Your certainty is admirable,
but it doesn't
change the truth:
No matter how
powerful Dai grows,
he can never stop
the Dark King Vearn.
Dai hasn't had
the chance, has he?
After all, how could he...
when he's attacking
the wrong target?
Because the real
King Vearn isn't there...
He's right here.
He's been right before
our eyes, all along.
Huh?
So? Is that "the truth"?
Are you and the Dark
King one and the same?!
[gasp]
Wh-What?
C'mon, what kind of stupid
sense does that make?
It would have to be an
illusion. Think about it.
You've all seen Mystvearn
in the same place
as the Dark King
numerous times...
I always knew you'd be the
first to realize the truth.
Your perceptions are as
clear as ever, Hyunckel.
From the moment
Mystvearn revealed
the face he's been hiding
under the Shadow Raiment,
I've sensed a presence
that I recognized
but couldn't quite place.
When I saw the phoenix...
I knew it could be
none other than Vearn.
Now, it's almost obvious.
While his voice
may be youthful,
Mystvearn's mannerisms
and fighting style
all line up with
the Dark King's.
I suspect that the reason
Mystvearn was forced to conceal
his appearance and keep
silent for all these years...
is because if someone
familiar with Vearn
had heard his voice or seen
how he carried himself,
they might begin to notice
all the subtle similarities.
Hyunckel: And since a kingdom
can't be ruled in silence,
the shadow made a sacrifice.
But that shadow was pulling
the strings all along.
Mystvearn: Close... But
don't bother with the rest.
You were mostly correct -
still, it makes no difference.
You've gleaned far more
than you deserve to know.
Now, take it with you.
Killvearn: Oh, come on.
What's the harm in
a few more moments?
You've already said this much -
why not tell us the rest?
Well, look who it is.
Killvearn: In the
flesh, as they say.
But I'd like to
hear more about you.
So, you've won.
Or did Avan find
a way to escape?
Killvearn: What do you think?
No. No, he can't be...
Killvearn: If you need proof,
you can find a part
of him over that way.
N-No, he...
He can't...
N-Not again, please!
Chiu: M-Maam...
Mystvearn: Tragedy
upon tragedy.
That's the price
fools pay, isn't it?
Anyway...
You've tickled
my curiosity, Kill.
What exactly did
you mean by that?
Killvearn: Mean by what?
The hand's all
that's left of him...
Don't be ridiculous.
Why do you insist on asking
over and over about
my true identity?
Over these centuries,
you've seen me fight
with my face revealed like
this at least a few times...
All those years,
and yet it's always
the same question with you.
I see you've forgotten
my answer yet again.
"Don't bother asking."
"Even the likes of the
Reaper would not be spared
if he came to know the
true meaning of this face
which I am burdened to hide."
Mystvearn: I'm duty-bound, and
it's not my role to explain it.
It seemed to me as if
you understood my
secret perfectly well.
It's why the last
time I tried to
reveal this face
without permission,
you threatened to kill me.
So why the change in attitude?
Killvearn: I follow my
whims where I please...
And don't you go
forgetting, either.
Killvearn: I may be
obliged to assist
in the Dark King's endeavors,
but unlike you, I'm not
duty-bound to his silly rules.
Ah, yes. Fair enough.
The Dark Army might
have its ranks,
but the Reaper stands
above them, doesn't he?
In terms of stature, you're
nearly equal to Vearn himself.
And I haven't
forgotten a thing.
The memory of the day
you first appeared before us
is as clear in my mind as
if it happened yesterday.
Killvearn: Charming palace.
So which one of you...
is King Vearn?
It is I. And who,
pray tell, might you be?
Killvearn: My client has
advised that you can call me...
Killvearn.
Well, is that so?
Killvearn...
Then I presume
you're... one of his?
Killvearn: Indeed, sire.
I come bearing glad tidings from
the ancient one you know well.
A gift of sorts.
My specialty
is assassination.
I have dressed
in my formal garb
specifically to
entertain your presence.
As a gesture of friendship
from our mutual ally below,
I have been sent
as an aide...
to ensure that your campaign
against the Surface World
is a successful one.
An assassin as an aide?
[chuckling]
What a sense of humor.
Very well.
Then, I presume...
that if for some reason my
campaign is unsuccessful...
you'll immediately
resign as my aid,
then give me a demonstration
of your specialty.
A watchdog to guarantee my
conquest of the Surface...
Or kill Vearn.
Yes... rather quaint.
A coded moniker meaning
"Eliminate Vearn"...
You intrigue me.
Killvearn: You are truly
the god of the Underworld...
And most gracious,
Your Majesty.
I see you've noticed Myst here.
He's a powerful being
much like yourself...
And an excellent
right-hand man.
Mystvearn: I won't lie. I was
immediately taken with you.
To appear before the Dark King,
yet remain so calm...
Aloof, really.
Your attitude left
quite an impression.
Over the centuries, even
despite our differences...
We got along well. We'd even
formed a sort of trust.
Killvearn: That we did,
except it turns out you've been
lying to me this whole time.
I can understand why
you'd see it like that.
After all, it's as you say:
You were never truly a
servant of the Dark King.
Killvearn: Indeed.
Mystvearn: You were
merely following
the orders of your master
to do the king's bidding
while you kept an eye on him.
If I'm the real Vearn, it would
mean I've made a fool of you,
and while you've been
assisting my decoy,
I've been free to
work from the shadows.
It would also mean...
that this friendship
we've shared
was nothing more than
smoke and mirrors.
Killvearn: Well, wasn't it?
No. Because you're
wrong on both counts.
We misled you
about who was who,
there was no mistake
in your aid to him;
nor is there any mistake in
the friendship you
and I have forged.
Killvearn: Well, if there's
no mistake in our friendship,
then as a token of trust,
why don't you just
reveal your secret...
Mystvearn?
Killvearn: Temper, temper.
What was that for?
Drop the act. You
are not the Reaper.
I must say, you've put on
a convincing performance -
But I wasn't given
my official title
until well after Kill arrived.
The devil is in the details,
and yours are incorrect.
He doesn't call me Mystvearn.
He uses my old name: Myst.
Killvearn : [slight chuckle]
Now reveal yourself,
you sniveling imposter!
Avan: Whoops. That was
certainly a mistake.
[relieved gasp]
I must be out of practice.
To overlook something as simple
as your little nicknames.
I should've known
it was you...
Avan.
A Morph spell!
Huh?
Just like Zaboera...
It's a transformation spell.
He used it to
impersonate Killvearn.
Avan: Right you are, Maam.
I was going to join in
defeating this specter...
but I noticed Hyunckel
was in the middle of
solving the mystery.
So I took Killvearn's
form instead,
to see if I could help us
arrive at the grand reveal.
After all, the Reaper
had some inkling...
It stood to reason
that their history
could be used
to our advantage -
and now we know who we face.
Where's Kill?
How did you escape the Judge?
Avan: Must you ask?
Seeing as I'm here, there
can only be one answer.
It's quite simple...
It was the Reaper who lost.
Killvearn: If the little brat
defeats Vearn after all,
then I suppose that's that.
I may have obligations
to help him,
but it's not as
if I'm duty-bound.
That's what makes Mystvearn
and I so different.
[menacing chuckle]
Avan: Well, don't stop there.
What else differs
between the two of you?
Killvearn: It's
just his glove...
And why is it
filled with sand?
Killvearn: Avan!
Surprised, Reaper?
Quite easy to trick, it seems.
Avan: I concocted
this enchanted sand
using Lunar Zoombloom.
Its properties allow me to
use it as a sort of beacon
which I can use
to track an enemy.
It also allows me
to transport myself
anywhere it's been
left with a Zip spell.
It works across dimensions.
Even the ones that are
closed off from each other.
I couldn't just throw it on you
without making you suspicious...
So I snuck some into my glove
and grabbed ahold of your leg.
From there, it was merely
a matter of quick reflexes.
Avan: It might have seemed
like you landed a blow,
only I retracted my hand
at the last instant...
Once the glove was out here,
I had a way to return
this dimension...
with you none the wiser.
When the Judge began
his destruction sequence,
it was the last
gamble I could make.
Killvearn: Cheap
parlor tricks...
Any fool can make
enchanted sand.
But how? How are
you still alive?!
No one survives Megante!
Avan: I don't know.
Honestly, I can only
call it a miracle.
I may be the one human
in history who's suffered
the wrath of a Megante spell
more than once in his lifetime.
But since I've survived,
all that remains to do
with this life I've
been allowed to keep...
is use it against you.
Prepare yourself, Killvearn.
Wave Strike!
Killvearn [thought]: He's fast!
Killvearn [thought]:
Even if he slipped free,
he should be injured -
Yet he's as strong
and vital as ever...
As the Reaper,
I dispense fear...
but this is the first time I'm
experiencing it for myself...
This man has faced every
trap I could conceive of
and managed to come
out unscathed...
Avan: Well? What now?
You've used all your Phantom
Razors, and your Judge is gone.
I doubt you've had the chance
to prepare any other traps.
This time, it's really over.
Killvearn: Oh,
don't worry about me.
A limb is no loss.
I can survive anything as
long as my head's attached.
I assure you, I'm neither
mad nor suicidal,
so any concern is unnecessary!
Avan [thought]: That sphere...
What is he up to now?
Killvearn: You won't
survive this.
One of my arms
should be sufficient
to bring an end
to your antics.
It's slightly painful,
so consider it quite a feat
to compel me to use this...
Avan, the Hero.
You're one of the few men
that the Dark King Vearn
has ever feared.
Therefore, I offer
a final attack
worthy of your reputation.
I call it...
Incinerating Inferno!
Avan [thought]: A fireball?!
Killvearn: My blood has
the same composition
as Underworld magma.
Once ignited, it becomes
a scorching blaze -
and not even you
will endure its heat!
Avan [thought]: This is it.
That has to be his
true ace in the hole.
I doubt it can be
stopped or even dodged...
which leaves me with
only one option...
I'll have to counter it using
the best thing I've got.
Killvearn:
"Avan Strash," is it?
Why bother?
That's hardly a threat.
Nothing you have can
compare with this attack.
The fight is mine.
Says the man...
who's in the midst of
the first serious battle
of his long, cowardly life.
Killvearn: I won't
allow such insult.
I am the Reaper! I control
the life and death of all!
I'm the God of Death himself!
Killvearn: You fool!
Killvearn: [cackling]
How exquisite!
A fitting end to a most
irritating adversary.
[laughing]
Killvearn: It can't be!
I suppose you should've
stuck with something
a little more reliable
for this occasion.
Farewell, Reaper.
Avan Strash!
Killvearn [thought]: No, no.
This is impossible!
How could he withstand
my Incinerating Inferno?
H-How?!
Killvearn [thought]: Hadlar?!
Avan [thought]: Could it be?
Back when Hadlar
perished in my arms...
I was covered in his ashes...
Is that what protected
me from the Judge's Megante
and Killvearn's
Incinerating Inferno?
Hadlar, my old nemesis...
Is it true?
Did you rescue me?
Yes, now I have no doubt.
Hadlar's spirit
somehow saved me twice.
For him to come to my aid,
he must've really
detested you, Reaper.
That's less of a surprise.
Killvearn: How...
dare... you...
To suggest something as dubious
as a miracle could defeat me?
Help from beyond the grave?
I'll tell you what
actually happened.
Hadlar's body was made
of Superior Being cells.
They emit Dark Fire Energy...
And since they
remained in his ashes,
you were shielded
from the heat.
That's all there is to it.
It's the only explanation!
A miracle... A miracle
could never...
Avan [thought]:
While he was bragging,
he gave away his weakness.
As expected, when
I used my Avan Strash,
the residual blaze around
me caught onto his body...
Killvearn: [howling]
Avan [thought]: And now...
it just set the magma flowing
through his veins ablaze.
[horrified cry]
No, no, no. This is bad!
This is very bad!
Piroro: Crack!
Crackle! Kacrack!
Oh, it's no use!
I don't have the
Magic Power to save him.
Please, help me put him out.
I'm begging you,
Avan, have mercy.
Please! If we don't
do something soon,
he'll be reduced to ashes!
I'll tell him not
to be bad anymore!
I'll make him
promise! I swear!
Killvearn: [roaring]
We're running out of time.
I'm begging you! Please!
Killvearn: A-Avan?
Are you okay, master?
Killvearn: Y-Yes...
Yes, as a matter of fact,
I think I am, my dear Piroro.
We should thank Avan
properly for such generosity.
My thoughts exactly.
We owe him.
Avan: No, thank you.
Sorry, but you can
keep your gifts.
I had no doubt that our
battle would lead to this.
I've encountered many
enemies in my days,
but none have ever been
so cruel or untrustworthy.
Killvearn: Come, now.
That's cold.
You must be repaid for
your troubles. I insist...
You seemed to enjoy
my Phantom Razors...
Perhaps you should keep them!
Yes! Yes! Now we've
got you, dummy.
[evil giggling]
Killvearn: You see, with Piroro,
I can restock my blades...
And as I'm sure you recall,
only I know where these
13 daggers have been hidden.
It's what you might
call a reliable trap.
You came close, but
the tables have turned.
I already told you.
I was one-hundred
percent certain
that our duel would
lead to this moment.
Which is why I took the liberty
of laying a trap for you.
You're standing
in it as we speak.
Killvearn: What?!
Avan: If you have any
intention of keeping
the life that
I've spared you...
then I suggest you
don't move a muscle.
Fat chance, Hero.
I'm certain of this -
you're bluffing!
Killvearn: I concur.
And what a weak bluff at that.
You? Laid a trap? For me?
Don't make me laugh!
Killvearn [thought]:
A... Phantom... Razor?
But... What was
it doing... here?
When I was caught by
your Phantom Razors in
the other dimension,
that one got stuck in me.
Piroro might've retrieved
the others for you,
but I brought this
one back myself.
There were thirteen
invisible blades in your trap,
however, you also threw
one as a demonstration,
making a grand
total of fourteen.
As long as you
didn't know where it was,
I only needed the one.
Killvearn: Y-You... planted
it... when you saved me...
D-Didn't you? I got sloppy...
Piroro: It's no use.
He... He can't be healed.
Even if they're an immortal,
no living creature is able to
survive for long
without its head.
The loser loses their
head, after all. Well...
If you ask me,
it's a cruel fate,
but those are the rules
he wanted to play by.
It was supposed to be you...
[howling]
Then you mean
to tell me that...
Kill was defeated?
I'm sure that
little familiar of his
will try to revive him,
but it's a lost cause.
The Reaper has swung his
scythe for the last time.
Avan: And now, thanks to
what Hyunckel's surmised,
along with what
I've heard from you...
I believe I'm
coming to understand
the true nature of your
identity, Mystvearn...
As well... as the
Dark King Vearn's...
most closely guarded secret.
Uh, Dai... What is that?
Narrator: With the
Reaper defeated and
Mystvearn caught by surprise,
Avan parts the veil shrouding
Vearn's greatest secret
and relays his revelation
to his Disciples.
Meanwhile, ominous
clouds gather above
the Tower of Supremacy,
where Dai's mighty Doruora
blew the Dark King away.
And soon, the unraveling
threads of Vearn's mystery
lead to the rise of
the most powerful threat
our heroes have ever faced.
See how it all
unfolds, next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"Vearn's Truth."